This is a pictorial description of the animation model that we are trying to build. (image is in the resources folder if it won't open)

The main logic of this model will be handled in Animation Model class. This class can create a shape, remove a shape, add motions to a list of motions of a shape, check if a listOfMotion is valid, and convert current animation to strings. Animation model will implement a interface called Animation Operation class.

The shapes that user will create is controlled by an abtract shape class called AShape. This class will handle the field storing of each shape. Since the assignment only provided two shapes oval and rectangle (both represented by width and height) we are storing those parameters in the abstract class. The individual shape classes ("Oval" and "Rectangle") extends the abstract class and will only be used upon creation, giving the shape an identity of either being an oval or a rectangle.

We define motion as a transaction of state from one time to another. The transition of state means the motion will store the starting states and ending states. The starting states include: starting time, width, height, position, color. The ending states include: ending time, width, height, position, color. Motion will store position in a Positon2D class and store color in the awt.color library.

Linking these three big parts together, we utilized 2 map data structures in Animation Model. These 2 maps help us store and access the animation. The first hash map is nameMap with key=custom string name and value=IShape objects. It will help us identify which shape is which. The second hash map is animation with key=IShape object and value=List. This is logicial design because a list of transition of states is in fact an animation.